yeah so before you start a project you
need to set up base foundation on which
all your drawings will be upon so that's
what we'll be doing in this video
[Music]
hi everyone thank you for joining me on
episode number two for one bedroom
series all right so if you miss episode
number one you need to go back and you
need to watch that one so check the
description below for that video all
right so what we're doing is to draw a
one bedroom house from start to finish
all right this one in particular that's
a pretty simple pretty neat result a
rectangle and we're going to roof it up
we're gonna try to model as much as we
can and yeah we're gonna have dimensions
with Anna Jordan the property we're
gonna do everything a great thing okay
so today's video is about setting up our
set up yeah so before you start a
project you need to set now this
foundation on which all your drawings
will be upon but before you start to set
up you need to figure out which unit of
measurement you're gonna use and in
order to do that you need to know what
unit is acceptable in the country that
area in Jamaica we use the metric system
so we have the imperial system and we
have the metric system so if you don't
know what these are this is what they
look like okay so that imperial system
are the standard system deals with feet
and inches while the metric system deals
with millimeters meters kilometres that
kind of stuff the imperial system is
represented in fractions
while the metric system is represented
decimals Jamaica in this case requires
millimeters I personally prefer to use
the imperial system look I prefer
fractions or decimals in this case for
some reason I just think it's easier for
me to understand 12-feet is easier to
remember than three thousand five
hundred and twenty nine millimeters so
we will be doing this project in feet
and inches however there is a way that
you can use the program to show both
dimensions so that it is no acceptable
bypass constant you get alright so
that's the first thing you need once you
have decided then we can know the set of
our project on that system whichever one
you choose to use the same principles
apply I just needed to explain that now
we're going to move over to other kind
of where you need to understand what's
happening and how to go about setting up
your project all right let's go alright
so here we are on the computer so I have
both units of measurement on my install
on my computer I have imperial and I
have metric so whichever one you're
gonna use we're going to use well I'm
gonna use imperial for this project so
if you're gonna use metric of course you
would want to select that one now if
you're not seeing one on your screen
then what you can do is just follow what
I'm doing here so we're good to go to
control panel and we will go to programs
and features right here and look for
autocad architecture and then we're
gonna say change all right
all right so what we're looking at here
is that is the installer for autocad
architecture you should be familiar with
this screen when you were installing the
software all right so what we're going
to click on is this one over here add
our more features
and that will bring up this option so as
you can see I have both units selected
all right no that is the reason why you
can see that I have both here because I
already had them both selected here so
if you need one or the other you would
go ahead and slipped and follow through
with the instructions okay so since I
already have them both I'll just X this
off all right and then once you're done
with that then we'll open up autocrat
all right so here we are on the AutoCAD
dashboard so the first thing we're going
to do is to set up our project so let's
go ahead look for the project browser
icon at the top here it's gonna bring
you to what we call the project browser
all right now when you're going to open
a project or create a new project this
is where you would start as I said you
would open your project here as well
because if you notice this is the folder
that they are saved in so we have
documents my documents are that's my
projects and you can see all your arms
will be stored here and if you open this
one which is the one that you see over
here and you go inside you will see that
it has multiple files what happened is
that it creates a separate file for each
element of your project alright so we
would put the first floor on a separate
in a separate file we put a ground-floor
in a separate file and so on and so
forth and I will explain to you why it
works like that all right so you want to
ensure that you open your project from
this browser all right so of course I
have this project open now I'm going to
close it and we're going to start a new
project
all right so we click on this button but
create a new folder first gonna give our
drawing a number so d03
since that's we're at jar number three
we're gonna call this one more one bed
house all right so that's that open it
up there now once we're inside of that
folder we're gonna treat a new project
so go ahead I'm gonna give our project a
number it's important that you give your
project a number guys
all right so great that in mind of
course we're gonna call this one dead
room house and you can add a description
like one bedroom dwelling to be
constructed at our in Hut field
Manchester Jamaica whatever something
needed to put a description if you want
you don't have to of course we're not
gonna use a template at this time
because we didn't create in so I'm gonna
say okay now your project has been
created so if I should bring this folder
back up
[Music]
now you see that it has been treated
here all right so put that away
and once you see that it is bold that
mean that project is active so we can
close all right good
so know that that's done what happened
now is that list this becomes active and
this is called your project navigator
now if you're not seeing this what you
would do is click on it up here so you'd
find it up here click on it you get it
back alright so now we're in actually
inside of our one bedroom house project
juror number three description all right
so now this is where you're gonna set up
your project all right and the project
Navigator is the is responsible for
combining all your files this is where
all your files are kept in an organized
fashion all right so you would have
project settings here you would do your
drawings in here you would create your
views and then finally you would create
your sheets and everything would be in
an organized fashion right here alright
so first thing we need to do is to setup
a project so we go click on this edit
project button
alright that's already there that's
already there that good we're gonna
change these to guess yes
and then we're gonna find some templates
so being that we're gonna use Imperial
we're gonna select CTV alright go ahead
Imperial CTB open and we're gonna do the
same thing for sheet templates we're
gonna say go down to sheet imperial CTV
open and then you would select the size
sheet that you want to use on this
project so we're gonna use 24 by 36
which is too big for a tiny one-bedroom
house but this would be like a regular
sheet size that we would use in Jamaica
all right
especially for a residential project
alright good so then we would apply and
then we would say ok and of course we
would say yes make sure you read through
these stuff before you click
all right good so now that your project
is zipped
we can no need to sit or levels all
right
so I want to explain to you what levels
are before we move on now I have this
little drawing here and I have a ruler
of course I was a teacher so I
understand how to point with ruler so
yeah
so what I have here is a television and
I want to explain what levels are all
right so a building can be broken down
into levels all right and it levels
simply mean if you have multi-story
buildings you would have level one which
would be the lowest floor and then level
two level three level floor number four
as you go up
all right now this project is just a one
bedroom really actually we don't need to
break it up in levels but I want to do
something for demonstration purpose so
what we're gonna do is to put the
foundation what is below the ground on a
separate level and then we're going to
put everything above which would be the
the first floor itself or the ground
floor on a level four itself so what's
gonna happen is that we're gonna put
so we're gonna call the finished floor
level the finished floor level we're
gonna call it the zero line so this is
the zero line now we're gonna make the
foundation four feet below all right so
let's say the foundation is going to
look something like this
so we're gonna make the foundation four
feet below the zero line below the
finish for a level and then we're gonna
make the wall
everything above from the finished floor
level to the wall plate we're gonna make
that ten feet all right
so bear that in mind when we are gonna
create our levels all right so let's
look at that how do we set that up on
the computer so go ahead and click on
the levels setting and the first in one
enter is is the foundation I want to
start from butter all right so we're
gonna name this one over this level
foundation
[Music]
howdy-doo you why it's gonna be four
feet below zero which would make it
minus four okay so this would nomicon
minus four feet so let's do that
- four feet all right
and then here you'll put in how tall do
you want the foundation of course if it
is minus four feet below that's where I
wanted to start it's gonna be four feet
high so four feet high
am I gonna put in an ID for F I'm gonna
put in my description foundati
all right then we're gonna make sure
that this is selected okay and you
create a new level what happened now
because this was selected the new level
will now are to adjust elevation so now
our level our first level now which
would be ground level this now starts at
the zero mark as you can see here but
now we want to be 10 feet that's 10 inch
10 feet high enter and then we would
call this level 1 it has an IB let's get
let's name it actually we're on floor
I'm gonna call this floor
so we have the we have our lentils we
have Foundation which which is four feet
below that's where it's gonna start and
we have lower ground floor which is
going to be starting at zero mark all
right guys so that's how we're gonna do
that all right and you can always come
back and change these and of course if
you had more levels you would continue
to create more level so let's say for
instance we had a second floor or we had
an upper floor it would now begin at ten
feet level and we would want it to be
another ten feet high and that would
have an ID of two and of course we would
give it a description but we're not
gonna need this so let's remove that and
then we're gonna say okay yes so now you
can see that it's being populated here
all right and please check the zero and
these measurements here to make sure
that they're in Imperial or metric
whichever system that you're using
alright so moving down the list we have
what is called divisions all right no
divisions again for a small project like
this you don't need divisions but I'm
gonna be using it for demonstration
purpose all right
so divisions is really if you were to
break up a building into sections let's
say you have the West Wing the East Wing
and the north wing and so on and so
forth if you had let's say a garage that
is being attached to the house or if you
have an accessory building somewhere
else you would add divisions to your
project so we're gonna add one
all right we're gonna call it the main
building and what I did should I give it
description mean Billy enter
stupid em hi okay so we have a division
all right so everything here is set up
we're good to go let's go down to
construct no this is where you would now
start to draw alright so we're gonna
create the different files that we need
to draw inside of so we need to create
some construct so we're gonna write
right-click on that new I was a new
construct so we're gonna give this a
name the first drawing we would want to
do would be our or
let's say we create a file for the
foundation all right you can give it a
description I'm not gonna give it any
and here you would see the divisions so
of course the foundation that we're
going to be drawing will be for the main
building and we're joined foundation so
we'll check that of course if you were
gonna do foundation for let's say a
garage which would have its own division
or accessor building which would have
its own division you would not check
this one you would go and check the one
that corresponds with you get the idea
alright so we're doing the foundation
you don't worry we're not gonna open the
drawing all right that is being created
and then we're gonna create another one
now for
ground floor
so we're go ahead and select
ground-floor okay
all right no I'm gonna open this one so
you can see what happens
and so what happened is that it opens up
the ground floor drawing so now I can go
ahead and draw my ground floor here now
if I want to draw a foundation the
foundation I would go into foundation
and draw the foundation in destroy and
it's in two separate drawings
okay later when we're gonna create our
views we will be able to combine them to
get one entire drawing but the idea here
is to draw our components are all levels
on a separate drawing so that it
relieves the pressure on the computer
all right you don't have too many stuff
working with that you don't really need
that that moment in time all right so
that is the reason for that all right so
we have both our constructs created
we're gonna create some elements and
elements are stuff reference material so
let's see gridlines if you were to use
gridlines property boundary that kind of
thing so for this project I want to you
know try some grid lines even though
it's very tiny but just to show you how
to get that done so let's create one
call it grid lines and that's that
so that's that's all we're going to do
for that I might create another one and
call it a property boundary
all right so you create each of these in
their separate files so in the next
video we will be exploring our ground
floor okay this is our next step but
before we draw the ground floor we want
to lay out our grid lights of course the
grid line is totally unnecessary for
this project but I'm gonna do it for
demonstration purpose okay so that's how
you go about setting up your project
eyes so thank you for joining me I hope
that you learn something if you have any
question at all let's drop them in the
comments below and of course I'll try to
answer as much as I can and look out for
the next video so see you guys big up
[Music]