hi so this is episode 6 of our one
bedroom series and it's now time to
place our windows yes so if that is
something you want to learn so the two
types of window that we're going to be
using on this building are glider
windows and pivot window but there is
one before so as you can see the bladder
window looks like this it slides in the
horizontal direction it is important to
note though that this is different from
double-hung window which slides in the
vertical direction the other window is
the pivot window which looks like this
it has a pivot in the center of the
window which can be horizontal or
vertical as you can see right there all
right that would allow the window to be
swiveled in and out and of course there
are many different variants of these
windows so be sure to check the link in
the description to read more about the
different types
further ado let's again alright so here
we are back in the drawing alright so in
the last video we did our openings and
did our doors so on the bottom right of
your screen you're gonna see a list of
all the windows that we're gonna be
putting in this building alright so we
have a total of seven windows and if you
look at the first four windows they are
basically the same size the same style
everything about them is the same they
are just in different locations so one
and two would be in the bedroom three
and four would be in a living room and
then five and six the in the kitchen and
then seven would be in the bathroom
alright so we're gonna go back to our
plan view let's go back to top 2d
wireframe so we go back to our tool
palette and we go down to windows
alright so I have a few windows here we
could search for more windows by
clicking on the more window tool or go
to our home tools content browser
Imperial or metric depending on which
one you are using we're doing imperial
and you would search for windows and
doors and we go over to windows you can
explore these other options like corner
windows where we could have a 90-degree
corner window and so on and so forth but
we're not using corner in it for this
drawing I'm gonna just use a regular
windows so go ahead and explore and see
the available windows that are there for
this drawing I think we have the one
that we need right in the inside of this
palette we could actually make this a
little bigger by going here view options
and make the icon a little bigger so let
me see alright so now you see that where
is it glider all right it's like a
sliding window so we're going to click
on it
and the first thing we're going to do is
to set the size that we need and we know
that this window should be now 4 by 4
window which is a standard sized window
that we use a lot in Jamaica so 4 by 4
again we're going to set our measurement
to be outside of the frame and we're
gonna go down and we're going to make
some adjustment down here for the
location so the first thing is that we
want it to be on this option which is
the offset Center and we want it to be 0
and we also want a justification to be
on Center as well
all right remember when we did our doors
we're doing the same thing here and we
want the vertical alignment to be head
the head is the top of the window and we
want a head height to be 7 feet so what
that is saying is from the head of the
window to the ground but that's the
finished floor level we want that height
to be 7 feet which is actually the same
height of our doors and what that will
do is that will make our windows and our
doors on the same level okay so make
sure that we have several feet right
here and then everything else looks good
so we could actually go ahead and click
on the walls that we we want to place
this window no remember that there are
four of this exact window so we're going
to place all four of them at once
all right so click on our first one
which would be is it here no it's on
this wall alright now if you notice the
window automatically snaps to the centre
of the wall right and that's because we
need or I just
right here all right so once it looks
good we got a click and we go to our
second wall looks good 4 feet on each
side we click come down to our living
era 5 foot 3 on the other side click and
then we have another one here one foot
on either side we're gonna click so just
like that we have already placed for our
four windows if let's go ahead and take
a look at it and we're gonna just take a
look at that so already we have four of
our windows in stalled in the drawing
not in the actual house all right top
view 2d so now we're going to put in our
kitchen windows if you notice on the
schedule the kitchen window has the same
width but the height is a little bit
different it's a little shorter and I'm
gonna explain why we make it like that
in a little bit so let's go ahead it's
the same style so we're going to select
the glider again and only thing we're
gonna change is the width let me see if
we have it in here okay so there we go
four by three and everything remains the
same Center zero Center and we make sure
that the head height is also 7 feet and
then we're gonna go and we're gonna
place it here in the middle of this wall
which is what two feet six on either
side and we're going to go to this one
as well and we're gonna place the other
one there now if you look it would
appear as if these windows are not there
but if I should go in 3d view we can see
that clearly they are there so I'm gonna
explain to you what is happening here
when you look on your drawing from top
view what you're seeing is a section let
me minimize this what you're seeing is a
section through the building so imagine
that we take a samurai sword and we
slice the building right across here and
let's say we slice off the top of the
building that's what you're seeing when
you look on the top view like this so we
slice off the top now we can see the
windows doors so what is happening here
is that go back to our 3d and so what is
happening here is that the cut that was
made through the building is below these
windows so it's just below these windows
so these windows are not gonna be shown
in the top view all right but we can
actually make an adjustment to that and
it's pretty simple so let's go back to
our top view and we're gonna make a
change so that these windows will now
appear so what we would do is to go to
what we call the global hot pane all
right currently it is at 3 feet 6 inches
this 3 feet 6 is actually measuring you
know what let me go back to 3d so I can
explain it a little better all right so
the 3 feet 6 that we're seeing here on
our global cut plane our cut height is
actually from the ground up so 3 feet 6
up and then it cuts the entire building
there now these windows are actually 4
feet from the ground so we would not see
these winners in our plan view so all we
need to do is to change to push this up
a little bit so that this can show so
we're gonna make this 4 feet 6 instead
of 3 feet 6 and then we're gonna just
hit OK and then once we go back to our
top view now we can now see those
windows showing up
so it is as simple as that then we're
going to insert our last window which is
a horizontal pivot window that is two
feet wide by three feet high so let's go
ahead and look for that one so do I have
a pivot window here so we have a
horizontal pivot window right here if
you're not seeing it go ahead click on
your more tools and search for it and
insert it into your drawing so I'm gonna
click on it right here go ahead and
enter the size to put the two feet by
three feet high outside of frame and
we're gonna say do we want it in the
center yes we want the head height to
also be seven feet everything looks good
we'll go ahead and we click on our wall
and it looks like it is in the center
yes one feet six on either side click
beautiful so now all our windows are
showing in the building and guess what
guys that is it for this video that is
it
so now you know we can't end without
looking at our 3d vo all right and I'm
gonna spin it around so you can see what
we have so far so all our windows are
game and all our doors are in alright so
earlier I said to you the reason why we
normally make the kitchen windows a
little bit higher than the regular ones
is because inside of the kitchen you're
gonna have counter tops
and facets and so on and so forth so
what we do is to just raise the window a
little bit higher so that you have
enough space to accommodate all of that
also our bathroom windows are normally
two by two all right so normally we
would have instead of three here we
would have two and it would look like a
square like that but honestly I don't
know why I don't know why they make the
bathroom window so small because to me
they're too small
so I'm gonna leave it at 3 feet right
there nothing is wrong with that maybe a
too much teeth please oh by the way I
wanted to have a little bit of fun with
this so just like all we open the door
in the plan view we could actually open
the doors and the windows in 3d which
would be pretty exciting so what you do
you click on the door or the window and
you would go up to normally we would on
on the properties palette you would be
on the design
alright normally you would change it
here for the plan view but for the 3d
view we're gonna change it down here and
the putting angle so for our door I'm
gonna open that door about 45 degrees so
you type 45 and now that door is open
look at that now I can see inside of my
of my living room I could actually walk
through that door
alright and we could do the same thing
for our windows let me open this window
so you can see let me say alright 50
percent
so now the window is cracked you know
you can see a little of what's happening
inside there and guess what it did it
for all of these windows
I think this made more sense
oh my god I'm not actually leave it like
that No
whichever all right but yeah there you
go
open up the holes make some breeze by
two alright so there we have it guys
have fun alright guys so thank you for
watching this one I hope that you
learned something if you have any
questions feel free to
[Music]