so this is episode 7 of our one-bedroom
house and no it has been a long wait but
you know I got a little busy that aside
I'm here now and I'm ready to rock and
roll again so in today's video what
we're gonna do is foundations all right
in particular we're gonna do the
foundation walls the foundation footing
and we're gonna do the floor all three
of these we're gonna actually model them
in 3d
we're gonna get a little deeper into
some stuff so prepare your brains all
right if this is your first time on the
channel welcome thank you for joining
and I hope that you learn something new
if you have any questions at all or any
thoughts feel free to drop them below
and also don't forget to hit the like
button I'd really appreciate that
let's go so for those of you who don't
know what a foundation is which would be
foundation of a building is also
referred to as the sub structure so you
have a superstructure which is the
portion above ground level and you have
sub structure which is below the ground
level which is what we will be focusing
on and there are many types of
foundation you have a pile RAF pad
foundation but the one we're gonna be
focusing on or the one we're gonna be
using this is known as strict foundation
which is typical of what we use mostly
in Jamaica and other parts of the
Caribbean so a strip foundation is
basically a strip of reinforced concrete
that runs along the bottom of a wall all
right and what it does is to support
that wall that's basically it just a
strip of concrete all right
so that's what we'll be doing today all
right so here we are back in AutoCAD in
the last couple of videos this was where
we cut and so now we're going to add our
foundation now if you go back over to
your project navigator
this is it right here we are now going
to go into our foundation construct and
this is where we'll be drawing our
foundation everything foundation related
will be going into that file all right
and if you're not seeing project
navigator it is right up here so you're
gonna open it up and it should bring you
to your project settings go down to
constructs foundations so we're going to
open it and up here we can see that we
have it open and it's almost like a
brand-new drawing because there's
nothing inside of it so the first thing
we're gonna do is to bring in our grid
lines just like we did for the ground
floor so right click and we're gonna say
xref overlay and just like that our grid
lines are no in the second thing to do
is to draw our foundation walls
so there are two ways we can do this we
can draw the walls from scratch like we
did in episode 4 or since we already
have the walls over here we could
actually copy these walls what do you
think why not
so let's go back to the top view and
we're gonna go back to 2d wireframe
and we're gonna copy these walls
so we're gonna click on one of the walls
and we're gonna right click and we're
gonna say select similar now what that
will do is to select all your walls no
people we're not gonna copy the doors
and we're not gonna copy the windows
because we don't have windows and doors
in a foundation we only need the walls
ok that is why we're copying just was so
we go over to back to home and I just
want to show you now this copy tool
we're not gonna use it
ok cuz we're copying from one file to
another file but we need to copy using
our
reference point and the reference point
that I want to use is one a right at
this intersection so how do we do that
we're gonna use the command copy base
and the shortcut for that is ctrl shift
C as you can see here it is now active
and we're going to select this
intersection here as a reference point
so we're going to click and now we can
go over to our foundation and we're
gonna paste now if you know the shortcut
for paste that would be what control V
so ctrl V and now you can see that we
have the same reference point here for
the one e on the grid line so we're
gonna drop it right at that intersection
and just like that
our walls are now inside of our
foundation drawing all right
now if I should go to 3d and observe
what do you observe these walls are too
tall to be hidden there is no way we'd
have our foundation walls this top so
the first thing we need to do is to
reduce the height so we're gonna click
on it let's select all our walls again
and we're going to go over to our
properties and change the height of our
walls to 4 feet that's it you have to
remember that when we set up the project
we set the foundation to be 4 feet high
all right so that's gonna be that so now
we have the foundation walls all set and
all done the second thing we're gonna do
is to add the floor slab all right and
the floor slab should be right on top of
this area here right on top of it it
should flush with the top of the wall so
let me show you if I should rotate the
floor like this the floor should be
exactly on top of here all right so
we're gonna do that let's go back to the
top view to the wireframe and we're
gonna go to roof slab and change it to
slab all right we can find it here or we
can go over to our tool pallet where it
is also located in the design tab you'll
go down until you see slab right here
alright either way let's click on it and
now we are we can draw our slab so the
first thing we're gonna do is to type in
how thick we want this slab to be so we
want the slab to be 6 inches thick okay
for residential properties it would be 6
inches and for commercial it would be a
little bit thicker maybe 8 inches so for
this building imma leave it at 6 make
sure that the justify is top everything
else is good and then we're gonna go
ahead and draw a box around and this box
we're gonna draw it on the inside of
this wall so turn this off so I'm gonna
draw it from here over to this corner
like that don't to this corner like that
over to this corner and then back up to
this corner like that all right
and so we close the box right there and
we're gonna hit enter and that's it hit
enter one more time let's look at that
in 3d you know I love my 3d view I'm
gonna say concept to all this time now
if you notice now that the floor slab is
below the foundation which is ridiculous
I don't want it there I want it to be on
top of flushing with the top of the wall
so what I need to do so click on the
floor slab and change the elevation from
0 to 4 4
four feet and just like that all right
so that is how that should look flush
just like that now if you'll notice I'm
gonna put this in x-ray view so you can
see what I'm saying now if you notice
the walls are intersecting with the
floor so if I should go like this you
can see that the floor actually runs
through the wall and we don't want that
okay we actually want the floor to to
stop at each wall all right so what
we're gonna do we're gonna create what
is called interference all right so
click on the wall or rather click on the
slab and then we're gonna go up to
interference and we're gonna add some
interference so click on it and you
wanna select it says down here select
objects to add so what do we want to add
we want to add these walls that are
interfering with the floor slab so let's
go ahead and select them we could
actually do it from the 3d view which is
what I'm gonna do here that one then we
have this one we have this wall and we
also have this one so these are the
walls that are interfering with the
floor slab
once you're done selecting you would
press ENTER and then you have the
decision to say do you want it to be
additive or do you want it to be
subtractive which one do you think
perfect subtractive something OC a
brightener Yemen subtract and just like
that boom the floor is now separated for
each rule so each room now has its own
floor slab alright and the last thing we
need to do is to add our foundation
footing okay
so you see it's not all that difficult
in fact this might be the most difficult
part of the video so pay attention so
we're gonna add some footing what we
need to do is to go to our tool pallet
and we're gonna say content browser and
we're gonna look for the footing to add
to this drawing so we'll go to imperial
let me go back if you're using metric
you would go to match it what were using
Imperial for this project so we're gonna
go to Imperial and then we're gonna go
down to was go to concrete and here we
can see that we have a couple of options
we have like a concrete wall founded
with with a footing beneath it we have
concrete walls have a lot of different
stuff but the one that we're going to be
using is this one here okay it says here
variable width times 12 inches concrete
strip foundation so we can change the
width but the height of it is 12 inches
which is too thick but we're gonna make
some adjustment to it still but this is
the one that I would recommend that you
use so what I'm going to do actually is
to add it to my walls tool pallet so I'm
gonna go here and I'm gonna say add to
tool palette so now it is in my tool
pallet down here and we're gonna go
ahead and draw one of these strip
foundation so we're gonna click on it
and
we want the width to be one into six
inches okay one into six and we want the
justifier to be Center and what else
I'll leave it at that for now
and I'm gonna click I'm gonna draw the
first footing foundation from here to
here click enter so just like that we
have our first foundation but the
problem with this is that it is too
thick it is 12 inches which would be
fine if that's what you wanted but for
this project I want a foundation that is
9 inches thick which is typical for most
of the houses that we do in Jamaica
all right so 9 inches so how do we do
this we're gonna have to edit this
foundation so what we're gonna do is to
copy style well first you need to
highlight the object and then we're
gonna say copy style and we're gonna
change the name of it because we want
this to be our own one that we use so
we're going to change it to 9 because
this one is gonna be 9 inches tall or
thick change the description to 9 as
well and then we'll go over to
components and this is where now things
get deep technical it looks difficult
but it's not alright so this is like a
View window where we can see what the
footing looks like based on what we do
over here basically all we're gonna do
is to change this to 9 that's all but
make sure that it is negative 9 okay so
it is gonna be negative 9 9 inches and
I'm gonna change this to zero and then
I'm gonna say okay oh okay that's it yep
that is it and we can go over to our
style just to check if that's the one we
are using so now we have a separate
style that we've just created called
x times 9 which is a variable width
times a 9 inch deep foundation all right
strip foundation just to make sure so
now we're good to go
if we look at it in 3d let's do that we
can see that we have a strip foundation
running underneath that wall that is 9
inches thick perfect so we're gonna
finish the rest of it top to be
wireframe
so what we're gonna do is to click on
this one we're gonna say add selected
all right so we're gonna be adding the
rest of it so let's start from this
corner go all the way across so almost
like a drawing walls going down
never better walk across all right so so
far we have our external walls being
done now we need to do the internal ones
the internal ones might be a little bit
more challenging because we don't have a
grid line running through all of them
and selected well this one has a grid
line so let's do this one so we're gonna
start right at the green box I'm gonna
bring it all the way up to this one I
would recommend turn on the ortho mode
this will help you so that your
foundation walls are your foundation
footing will be straight no one on lino
clean up all right so we have that one
we're gonna add one across here let's do
that click on one of these and we're
gonna say add selected and when what I'm
looking for is a green box to pop up in
this corner let me see right see that
green box why don't you see the green
box click alright good bring it across
and I see another green box over there
I'm gonna just click even though it
looks like the mouse or the cursor is
not there once the green box pop up just
click and we're gonna do the same thing
I'd selected let's do this one I'm gonna
come down from that grid point and that
green box right there
click I'm gonna go across to that green
box then we have this tiny wall left so
click on it and selected and here we
have that green box right there let me
see that one click bring it across
and quick and guess what guys just like
that we have all our foundation complete
that's it so let's go back to 3d x-ray
and I might just add perspective to that
so you can have a a nicer look at it man
so just like that guys we have our
foundation walls or foundation footing
and our ground floor slab all right so
we have the slab look at that how
beautiful now when it reaches point guys
there is one thing that you don't want
to forget to do and that is - that is
the heat the same one so go ahead hit
save and you're good alright guys so
that's it that is it let me just kind of
spin it around and rotate it so calcium
all right guys so thank you for joining
me on this one I hope that you learned
something if you have any questions just
drop them in the comments and remember
hit that like one
alright thank you for watching and I'll
see you in the next video
[Music]